Solomon Vidal
Web Development II
9 March 2023
Topic Proposal: Music Types and How They Affect People Individually
	I believe music is a significant topic for me to talk about because it has been a consistent “calming” part of my life that always brings me back even while I’m in the worst of moods. Music, as I’ve observed in myself and others, has the ability to alter moods significantly whether positively or negatively. While the phenomenon of music altering one’s mood is interesting, some people feel little to nothing when listening to music. I find the different reactions interesting and would like to delve further into them and my understanding of how music can, or cannot, affect people — especially those who are close to me. As I write this, though, I’m currently listening to music and even though most of my day wasn’t what I considered “good”, listening to music prompted my mood to become more focused and to use finishing this assignment as a form of “distraction”. Therapy isn’t free, but music is considering it’s always all around you; you can hear music in anything as long as you try to hear the beat or the tune in even the most mundane things.
	For the interviewing process, I want to try three different generations of music listeners: My grandpa, my mom, and my sister. Because of their difference in music taste and their different feelings towards music, I believe I’ll be able to conduct a thorough review of how music can affect people I know who have alternative music tastes to mine. 
My grandpa listens to music all the time; he tends to listen to older songs, operas, and fast-paced surf rock. My grandpa has a wide range of music tastes, but I believe that his favorite to listen to is classical crossovers as I get a dose of “The Prayer” every month. When my grandpa listens to his other favorites, he’s usually dancing or singing along, but when he listens to “The Prayer” he just sits and listens, no dancing. I want to ask him why his reaction to this song is different than the other songs he listens to. I can infer that it has something to do with the message of the song, but people are complex and they can put importance on different things other than the meaning of the song.
My mom tends to listen exclusively to Christian music — either Christian pop or rock. What I find interesting about how my mom listens to music is that she does have songs she likes outside of the Christian genre, but she never listens to them in her own time. She reserves listening to music for religious purposes, it seems. The only time I hear other kinds of songs coming out of her phone is when she’s watching a video on social media. I want to ask her what this genre of music makes her feel like; does it make her feel closer to God? Does it help her pray? Or does she listen to remind herself of an afterlife? I noticed that my mother listens to Christian music more often after the passing of her sister, my aunt, in 2019. I know that Christianity and K-Dramas are the only things she uses to cope with my aunt’s passing because they would talk about both to each other very often on their daily video calls. I feel that looking into what it means to her would help her open up about it rather than creating a competition on who prays more in our house.
For my older sister, I know she listens to a variety of genres from rock (specifically Glam Rock and Punk Rock), to pop, specific genres of country, and indie. I believe the genre she likes the most is a subgenre that is slightly whimsical, gives a cottage-core feel, and sounds like what contemporary art looks like. She always listens to this unnamed genre while she draws so I assume she likes it the most. While she got an art degree, she ended up not going into an art career so she creates artwork at home in her free time. Like most artists, she was discouraged to pursue it and the piles of “it’ll never make you money” started working. By the time she got her degree, she didn’t feel like pursuing it anymore. I want to ask her what this genre makes her feel because my sister tends to be in touch with her inner child — more often than not. Very often my sister says things like “I’m either the preschooler or the preschool teacher” illuminating that she can often act like a kid which reflects in her favorite type of music.
	What I’m trying to learn about this topic, as I’ve stated previously, is how music can affect people and if it affects them the same way as me. While I use music as a strong pillar in my life — even compare it to “therapy” as it’s my way to cope and switch moods daily — others might not be the same and might put music at the end of their “use to cope” list. Another interesting I’d learn from this would be what circumstances led people to listen to the music of their choice. It’ll prompt me to ask those around me to reflect on themselves and a piece of them they don’t think deeply about because it’s mostly about “feeling” rather than analyzing. People change every day, between now and the end of the semester, I think I’ll be listening to a different genre with different meanings; I want to observe this in others to see if, similarly to me, they will listen to different genres with different meanings because of a shift in their daily lives.